README.md, before:

# SkyFire 5.4.8 WoW Server - Docker Setup

A complete Docker-based setup for running a SkyFire World of Warcraft 5.4.8 (Mists of Pandaria) private server.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose v2
- World of Warcraft 5.4.8 client files
- At least 4GB RAM available for the containers

### 1. Prepare WoW Client Files

**IMPORTANT**: You must place your WoW 5.4.8 client files in the `wow_client/` directory at the root of this project.

```bash
# Create the wow_client directory if it doesn't exist
mkdir -p wow_client

# Copy your WoW 5.4.8 client files here
# The directory should contain the 'Data' folder and WoW executable
cp -r /path/to/your/wow/client/* wow_client/
```

The `wow_client/` directory structure should look like:

```
wow_client/
├── Data/
├── World of Warcraft.exe (or WoW.exe)
└── ... (other WoW client files)
```

### 2. Prepare Database Files

The project includes a base database in `db-extra/world-base/`:

- `SFDB_full_548_24.001_2024_09_04_Release.zip` - Extract this file to get the SQL database
- `SFDB_full_548_24.001_2024_09_04_Release.sql` - The extracted SQL file

**To use the included database:**

```bash
cd db-extra/world-base/
unzip SFDB_full_548_24.001_2024_09_04_Release.zip
```

**To use your own database:**
Simply replace the SQL file in `db-extra/world-base/` with your own database dump.

> **Note**: All database patches from the SkyFire repository will be automatically applied during the database initialization process.

### 3. Configure Environment

**All server configuration is centralized in the `.env` file**. All environment variables for the database, server paths, and connection settings are defined there. The default settings should work for most setups:

- **Database**: MariaDB with auto-initialization
- **Realm Address**: `127.0.0.1` (localhost)
- **Ports**: Auth server (3724), World server (8085), Database (3306)
- **All paths and credentials**: Defined in `.env`

You can modify any setting by editing the `.env` file before starting the services.

### 4. Build and Start the Server

```bash
# Build all Docker images
make build

# Start the database
make db

# Initialize the database (run once)
make init-db

# Start auth and world servers
make up
```

**Or start everything at once:**

```bash
make build
make up-all
```

## 📋 Available Commands

| Command           | Description                                     |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `make help`       | Show all available commands                     |
| `make build`      | Build all Docker images                         |
| `make db`         | Start database only                             |
| `make init-db`    | Initialize database (run after first `make db`) |
| `make up`         | Start world + auth servers (requires db)        |
| `make up-auth`    | Start database + auth server only               |
| `make up-all`     | Start all services (database + auth + world)    |
| `make ps`         | Show service status                             |
| `make logs`       | View logs from all services                     |
| `make logs-world` | View world server logs                          |
| `make logs-auth`  | View auth server logs                           |
| `make stop`       | Stop services (keep data)                       |
| `make down`       | Stop and remove containers (keep data)          |
| `make clean`      | Complete cleanup (removes all data)             |

## 🔧 Data Extraction

**REQUIRED**: You must manually extract the required data from your WoW client before starting the world server:

```bash
make extract-force
```

This command extracts:

- **DBC/DB2 files** - Game database files
- **Maps** - World geometry data
- **VMaps** - Collision and line-of-sight data
- **Cameras** - Camera path data

> **Note**: Data extraction can take 10-30 minutes depending on your system. The extracted data is stored in the `./data/` directory and persists between container restarts. This step is mandatory and must be completed before the world server can function properly.

## 🗂️ Directory Structure

```
skyfire-docker/
├── data/                    # Extracted WoW data (auto-generated)
├── wow_client/             # WoW 5.4.8 client files (YOU MUST ADD)
├── db-extra/
│   └── world-base/         # Database files
├── logs/                   # Server logs (auto-generated)
├── scripts/                # Container entry scripts
├── .env                    # Environment configuration
├── docker-compose.yml      # Service definitions
├── Dockerfile             # Container build instructions
└── Makefile              # Automation commands
```

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"No realms available"**

- Check that both auth and world servers are running: `make ps`
- Verify realmlist.wtf points to `127.0.0.1`
- Check auth server logs: `make logs-auth`

**"World server down"**

- Ensure data extraction completed successfully
- Check world server logs: `make logs-world`
- Verify WoW client files are properly placed in `wow_client/`

**Database connection errors**

- Wait for database to fully initialize (check `make logs`)
- Ensure `make init-db` was run successfully

### Viewing Logs

```bash
# All services
make logs

# Specific service
make logs-world
make logs-auth

# Database logs
docker logs skyfire-docker-db-1
```

### Fresh Start

If you encounter persistent issues:

```bash
# Complete cleanup and restart
make clean
make build
make up-all
```

## ⚙️ Advanced Configuration

### Environment Variables (.env)

All configuration variables are defined in the `.env` file:

```bash
# Server address (change for external access)
REALMLIST_ADDRESS=127.0.0.1

# Data extraction paths (container paths)
WOW_CLIENT_DIR=/wow_client
DATA_DIR=/data

# SkyFire server paths (container paths)
SKYFIRE_BIN=/usr/local/skyfire-server/bin
SKYFIRE_ETC=/usr/local/skyfire-server/etc
SKYFIRE_CONF=/usr/local/skyfire-server/etc

# SQL paths (container paths)
SQL_BASE_DIR=/opt/skyfire/sql
EXTRA_SQL_DIR=/sql-extra

# Database connection settings
DB_HOST=db
DB_PORT=3306
DB_USER=root
DB_PASS=Abc123Abcd

# Database names
LOGIN_DB=auth
WORLD_DB=world
CHAR_DB=characters
```

### External Access

To allow external connections:

1. Change `REALMLIST_ADDRESS` in `.env` to your server's IP

## 📝 Notes

- **First startup** takes longer due to data extraction
- **Logs** are persisted in `./logs/` directory
- **Database data** persists between restarts
- **MMAPS generation** is disabled by default (optional, takes 4-20+ hours)
- The setup uses **MariaDB** instead of MySQL for better performance

## 🆘 Support

For issues specific to this Docker setup, check the logs and ensure all prerequisites are met. For SkyFire server issues, consult the official SkyFire documentation and community resources.

Commit message:

Enables using local SkyFire sources
Allows users to provide their own SkyFire sources by copying them to the `src/` directory.

This change modifies the Dockerfile to copy sources from the `src/` directory instead of cloning from the official repository. A `.gitignore` entry is added to ignore the contents of `src/` (except for `.gitkeep`).  The README is updated to explain how to use this feature.

README.md, after:

# SkyFire 5.4.8 WoW Server - Docker Setup

A complete Docker-based setup for running a SkyFire World of Warcraft 5.4.8 (Mists of Pandaria) private server.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose v2
- World of Warcraft 5.4.8 client files
- At least 4GB RAM available for the containers

### 1. Prepare WoW Client Files

**IMPORTANT**: You must place your WoW 5.4.8 client files in the `wow_client/` directory at the root of this project.

```bash
# Create the wow_client directory if it doesn't exist
mkdir -p wow_client

# Copy your WoW 5.4.8 client files here
# The directory should contain the 'Data' folder and WoW executable
cp -r /path/to/your/wow/client/* wow_client/
```

The `wow_client/` directory structure should look like:

```
wow_client/
├── Data/
├── World of Warcraft.exe (or WoW.exe)
└── ... (other WoW client files)
```

### 2. Prepare Database Files

The project includes a base database in `db-extra/world-base/`:

- `SFDB_full_548_24.001_2024_09_04_Release.zip` - Extract this file to get the SQL database
- `SFDB_full_548_24.001_2024_09_04_Release.sql` - The extracted SQL file

**To use the included database:**

```bash
cd db-extra/world-base/
unzip SFDB_full_548_24.001_2024_09_04_Release.zip
```

**To use your own database:**
Simply replace the SQL file in `db-extra/world-base/` with your own database dump.

> **Note**: All database patches from the SkyFire repository will be automatically applied during the database initialization process.

### 3. Configure Environment

**All server configuration is centralized in the `.env` file**. All environment variables for the database, server paths, and connection settings are defined there. The default settings should work for most setups:

- **Database**: MariaDB with auto-initialization
- **Realm Address**: `127.0.0.1` (localhost)
- **Ports**: Auth server (3724), World server (8085), Database (3306)
- **All paths and credentials**: Defined in `.env`

You can modify any setting by editing the `.env` file before starting the services.

### 4. Use your own SkyFire sources (BYO)

This repository does not include SkyFire sources. Each user should place their own sources in the `src/` folder (ignored by Git in this repo), then build the images. Two common options:

- Clone your fork into `src/`:

Once `src/` exists, build the images. The Dockerfile compiles from these local sources.

### 5. Build and Start the Server

```bash
# Build all Docker images
make build

# Start the database
make db

# Initialize the database (run once)
make init-db

# Start auth and world servers
make up
```

**Or start everything at once:**

```bash
make build
make up-all
```

## 📋 Available Commands

| Command           | Description                                     |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `make help`       | Show all available commands                     |
| `make build`      | Build all Docker images                         |
| `make db`         | Start database only                             |
| `make init-db`    | Initialize database (run after first `make db`) |
| `make up`         | Start world + auth servers (requires db)        |
| `make up-auth`    | Start database + auth server only               |
| `make up-all`     | Start all services (database + auth + world)    |
| `make ps`         | Show service status                             |
| `make logs`       | View logs from all services                     |
| `make logs-world` | View world server logs                          |
| `make logs-auth`  | View auth server logs                           |
| `make stop`       | Stop services (keep data)                       |
| `make down`       | Stop and remove containers (keep data)          |
| `make clean`      | Complete cleanup (removes all data)             |

## 🔧 Data Extraction

**REQUIRED**: You must manually extract the required data from your WoW client before starting the world server:

```bash
make extract-force
```

This command extracts:

- **DBC/DB2 files** - Game database files
- **Maps** - World geometry data
- **VMaps** - Collision and line-of-sight data
- **Cameras** - Camera path data

> **Note**: Data extraction can take 10-30 minutes depending on your system. The extracted data is stored in the `./data/` directory and persists between container restarts. This step is mandatory and must be completed before the world server can function properly.

## 🗂️ Directory Structure

```
skyfire-docker/
├── data/                    # Extracted WoW data (auto-generated)
├── wow_client/             # WoW 5.4.8 client files (YOU MUST ADD)
├── src/                    # Your SkyFire sources (ignored by Git in this repo)
├── db-extra/
│   └── world-base/         # Database files
├── logs/                   # Server logs (auto-generated)
├── scripts/                # Container entry scripts
├── .env                    # Environment configuration
├── docker-compose.yml      # Service definitions
├── Dockerfile             # Container build instructions
└── Makefile              # Automation commands
```

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"No realms available"**

- Check that both auth and world servers are running: `make ps`
- Verify realmlist.wtf points to `127.0.0.1`
- Check auth server logs: `make logs-auth`

**"World server down"**

- Ensure data extraction completed successfully
- Check world server logs: `make logs-world`
- Verify WoW client files are properly placed in `wow_client/`

**Database connection errors**

- Wait for database to fully initialize (check `make logs`)
- Ensure `make init-db` was run successfully

### Viewing Logs

```bash
# All services
make logs

# Specific service
make logs-world
make logs-auth

# Database logs
docker logs skyfire-docker-db-1
```

### Fresh Start

If you encounter persistent issues:

```bash
# Complete cleanup and restart
make clean
make build
make up-all
```

## ⚙️ Advanced Configuration

### Environment Variables (.env)

All configuration variables are defined in the `.env` file:

```bash
# Server address (change for external access)
REALMLIST_ADDRESS=127.0.0.1

# Data extraction paths (container paths)
WOW_CLIENT_DIR=/wow_client
DATA_DIR=/data

# SkyFire server paths (container paths)
SKYFIRE_BIN=/usr/local/skyfire-server/bin
SKYFIRE_ETC=/usr/local/skyfire-server/etc
SKYFIRE_CONF=/usr/local/skyfire-server/etc

# SQL paths (container paths)
SQL_BASE_DIR=/opt/skyfire/sql
EXTRA_SQL_DIR=/sql-extra

# Database connection settings
DB_HOST=db
DB_PORT=3306
DB_USER=root
DB_PASS=Abc123Abcd

# Database names
LOGIN_DB=auth
WORLD_DB=world
CHAR_DB=characters
```

### External Access

To allow external connections:

1. Change `REALMLIST_ADDRESS` in `.env` to your server's IP

## 📝 Notes

- **First startup** takes longer due to data extraction
- **Logs** are persisted in `./logs/` directory
- **Database data** persists between restarts
- **MMAPS generation** is disabled by default (optional, takes 4-20+ hours)
- The setup uses **MariaDB** instead of MySQL for better performance

## 🆘 Support

For issues specific to this Docker setup, check the logs and ensure all prerequisites are met. For SkyFire server issues, consult the official SkyFire documentation and community resources.
